
All components of this product are
Copyright (c) 2012 FluidFeatures Software Inc.  All rights reserved.

FluidFeatures Software License

This Software and all content and other materials in the Software or associated
with the Software, including, without limitation, all logos, and all designs,
text, graphics, pictures, reviews, information, data, software, sound files,
other files and the selection and arrangement thereof (collectively, the
"Software Materials") are the proprietary property of FluidFeatures Software
Inc., or its licensors or users, and are protected by Canada, U.S. and
international copyright laws.

You are granted a limited, non-sublicensable license to access and use the
Software, for your commercial use by you and your website users only. The
license does not include or authorize: (a) any resale of the Software or the
Software Materials therein; (b) modifying or otherwise making any derivative
uses of the Software and the Software Materials, or any portion thereof, except
where such modification or derivative use is made in connection with your use of
the FluidFeatures online service; or (c) any use of the Software or the Software
Materials other than for its intended purpose. Any use of the Software or the
Software Materials other than as specifically authorized in these license,
without the prior written permission of FluidFeatures Software Inc, is strictly
prohibited and will terminate the license granted here. Such unauthorized use
may also violate applicable laws including without limitation copyright and
trademark laws and applicable communications regulations and statutes. Unless
explicitly stated herein, nothing in this license shall be construed as
conferring any license to intellectual property rights, whether by estoppel,
implication or otherwise.  This license is revocable at any time for any reason.

THE SOFTWARE AND THE SOFTWARE MATERIALS (INCLUDING ANY INFORMATION) ARE PROVIDED
ON AN "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE" BASIS WITHOUT WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EITHER
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AND INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION IMPLIED REPRESENTATIONS,
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF OR RELATING TO ACCURACY, ACCESSIBILITY,
AVAILABILITY, COMPLETENESS, ERRORS, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE,
MERCHANTABILITY, NON-INFRINGEMENT, PERFORMANCE, QUALITY, RESULTS, SECURITY,
SEQUENCE, OR TIMELINESS, ALL OF WHICH ARE HEREBY DISCLAIMED BY FLUIDFEATURES
SOFTWARE INC TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW.

THE AGGREGATE LIABILITY OF FLUID FEATURES SOFTWARE INC. TO YOU, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, WARRANTY, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE, WHETHER ACTIVE, PASSIVE OR
IMPUTED), PRODUCT LIABILITY, STRICT LIABILITY OR OTHER THEORY OF LIABILITY,
SHALL NOT EXCEED ANY COMPENSATION YOU PAY, IF ANY, FOR ACCESS TO OR USE OF THE
SOFTWARE.

